# `example`

Welcome to your new `example` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `example`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Rust Canister Development Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/rust/)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/candid/)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd example/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Start dfx
dfx start --background

## Build your Next.js application
You must also generate and point the static files of a properly-built Next.js application for deployment on the Internet Computer.

To generate the static files of a Next.js application, add this to your next.config.js file:

output: 'export'
Your next.config.js file should look similar to this. Please note that you may have existing settings that you should avoid overriding.

const nextConfig = {
  output: 'export',
};

Build your Next.js application by running the following command:

npx run build

This should now generate an out folder which consists of the static assets that make up the website.

In the next step, we will instruct the Internet Computer to deploy the website on-chain using these static files.

When deploying on the Internet Computer, these static files are not public to anyone including the nodes. Only the WASM file which is a binary instruction file that does not leak any of your code is public to nodes.

## Create a dfx.json file
In the top-level directory of your repository, at the source of add a dfx.json file and add the following:

{
    "canisters": {
      "example_frontend": {
        "frontend": {
          "entrypoint": "FE/out/index.html"
        },
        "source": ["FE/out"],
        "type": "assets"
      }
    },
    "output_env_file": ".env"
}
dfx.json is the configuration file for deploying all of your code to canister smart contracts on the Internet Computer mainnet or production environment.

Please note that you can adjust the following:

erc20icp - name of the canister smart contract

Also, make sure that these do point to the correct file:

"entrypoint": "FE/out/index.html"
and folder:

 "source": ["FE/out"],

Also add wordspaces in package.json:
"workspaces": [
  "FE"
]

## Run dfx generate
Run the following command to generate the correct types.

dfx generate

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
